# Supermarket Sales Analytics Dashboard in powerBI

### About:
This is a dashboard summarizing sales statistics for a supermarket in powerBI. Data was taken off [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/aungpyaeap/supermarket-sales) and includes transaction data across 3 different branches from January 2019 to March 2019.

Dataset (1000 rows) with the following notable columns:
- Invoice ID: Computer generated sales slip invoice identification number
- Branch of supercenter (3 branches are available identified by A, B and C).
- Type of customers, recorded by Members for customers using member card and Normal for without member card
- Gender: gender of customer
- Product Line: General catogrization of item
- Unit Price: price of each product
- Quantity: number of items bought for each customer
- Date: date of transaction
- Total: Total price paid by customer including 5% tax
- Payment: Payment method used by customer for purchase (credit card, cash, e-wallet)
- Gross income: gross profit generated by supermarket for transaction
- Rating: customer satisfaction rating on overall experience, given on a scale form 1-10

### How to Use:
Open the dashboard in Power BI; all aspects (excpet for the title) is interactable if you would like a more thorough breakdown. You could also use the filters at the top to filter by a specific cateogry. The key metrics we can see are Gross income and average rating, among othes in the table. If you hover over gross income and rating, a tooltip with further breakdown should pop up.


### Business Insights to possibly act upon:
- When filtering by payment option (credit card), and Branch (branches B and C), we notice a disproportionately large amount of credit card transactions for members vs non-members (1080 vs 703 for Branch B and 950 vs 493 for Branch C). While we would have to run some statistical test and collect more data to confirm that this isn't variation due to pure change, we could capitalize on this by perhaps promoting our supermarket with a credit cards cash-back rewards system for these branches. This would promote business, lead to better customer experience, and also reduce risk from cash payment options by (hopefully) reducing cash payment methods.
- Branch C showed a 55-45 female-male split in their quarterly gross income. This could imply that there were either more women customers, or the women customers in Branch C tend to spend more. Whatever the case, we could promote more lifestyle/homes products, or fashion accessories; which traditionally cater towards a more female dominant demographic.
- Health and Beauty products generated by far the least amount of gross income in Branch A ($600, with the next lowest being $780). Indeed, if we investigate the gross income of Health and Beauty products by date for Branch A, we see a below average nuber of transaction, with each transaction being on the lower side in monetary amount. This trend seems to only be for Branch A, as the other Branches have a relatively consistent product line gross income breakdown. This would indicate that we might need to slightly lower the inventory for Health and Beauty products in Branch A.

